  What is a Security Analyst?
Security Analyst are often referred as to as digital defender of an organisation and sit with blue team ( blue team is a team who comprises cyber security and techonology professionals who aim to protect an information system  from impending cyber threats by performing and
implementing defensive actions.) These people monitor investgate and piece together potential security incidents, known as alert, to decide if further action is needed and respond appropriately.
An example of a potential security incident is an employee who works in the London office who suddenly logs in from another country. An investigation is required to determine if this is legitimate.
  
Monitoring activity taking place on the devices and network of the organisation
Investigating unusual or suspicious activity, such as strange logins
Piecing together information to understand what has happened, when, and how
Working with other teams to improve the organisation's defense.

in my own words
Security Analyst are defender for the company and sit with the team that monitor potential alert to see if they need to do any further action.
seeing the activity that take place on the network
piecing the puzzle pieces together to understand what is going on
and team work help with the company defense



  What is a Security Engineering?
At a high level, Security Engineers build and maintain the systems and processes that protect an organisation's network and devices and are known as the architects of cyber security.
For example, a Security Engineer will be responsible for maintaining an Intrusion Detection System (IDS), which can be considered a security camera within an organisation's digital environment

Designing and maintaining security systems.
Keeping up to date with the latest and greatest hacker techniques being used.
Documenting processes and procedures.
Assessing risk and making sure systems and applications are protected against vulnerabilities.

In my own words
Security Engineering help build and maintain the system and process that help defend the company network and devices and they are best known as architects for cyber security which would be responsible for help maintaining
Intrusion Detection System (IDS)



  Penetration Testing
Penetration testing or is considered as ethitcal hacking is to test how secure are the company's system and software by safely trying to break into them.
They search for weaknesses and vulnerabilities and test if those can be exploited just like real hacker would, but in a safe controlled way. Everything is done under a agreement between company and the pentester. (this process is known as an engagement)

Testing the security of computer systems, networks, and websites.
Performing security assessments, audits, and analysing security policies.
Analysing the results and creating reports, advising an organisation on how to prevent the attack from occurring

  What is networking?
Network are simplely things connected. For example, your friendship circle you are all connected because of similar interests, hobbies, skills and sort
Networks can be found in all walks of life:

A city's public transportation system
Infrastructure such as the national power grid for electricity
Meeting and greeting your neighbours
Postal systems for sending letters and parce

But more specifically, in computing, networking is the same idea, just dispersed to technological devices. Take your phone as an example; the reason that you have it is to access things. We'll cover how these devices communicate with each other and the rules that follow.
In computing, a network can be formed by anywhere from 2 devices to billions. These devices include everything from your laptop and phone to security cameras, traffic lights and even farming
Networks are integrated into our everyday life. Be it gathering data for the weather, delivering electricity to homes or even determining who has the right of way at a road. Because networks are so embedded in the modern-day, networking is an essential concept 
to grasp in cybersecurity.

  What is the internet
The Internet is a giant network that consist of many smal network within itself. The first iteration of the internet was within the ARPANET project in the late 1960s.
This project was funded by the United States Defence Department and was the first documented network in action. However it wasn't until 1989 when the Internet as we know it was invented by
Tim Berners-Lee by the creation of the World Wide Web (WWW). It wasn't until this point that the Internet started to be used as a repository for storing and sharing information, just like it is today
The internet is made up of many small networks all joined together. These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks or the internet.
a network can be one of the 2 types
A private network
A public network

  Identifying Devices on a Network
To communicate and maintain order devices must be both identifying and identifiable on a network. Devices on a network are very similar to human in the fact that we have two ay of being identified
Our Name
Our Fingerprint
We can change our name through deed poll but we can't however change our fingerprints. Every human has an individual set of fingerprints which means that even if they change their name, there is still an identity behind it.
Devices have the same thing two means of identification with one being permeable. these are 
An Ip Address
A Media Access Control (MAC) Address (think of this as being similar to a serial number)

  Ip Addresses
Ip address or (internet protocol) address can be used as a way of identifying a host on a network for a period of time, where that IP Address can then be associated with another device without the IP address changing.
Ip address is a set of numbers that are divided into four octets. The value of each octet will summarise to be the IP address of the device on the network. This number is calculated through a technique kjnown as IP addressing & subnetting.
IP address can change from device to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network.
IP Addresses follow a set of standards known as protocols. These protocols are the backbone of networking and force many devices to communicate in the same language.
it can be both a private and pubic network depending on where they are will determine what type of IP address they have
A Public address is used to identify the device on the internet, where a private address is used to identify a device amongst other devices.
2 private ip addressed can communicate with each other however any data sent to the internet from either of the 2 ip address will be identified by the same public ip address.
Public addresses are given by your Internet Service Provider (ISP) at a monthly fee (your bill)
As more devices become connected it becomes increasingly harder to get a public address that isn't already in use. An example is Cisco a industry giant in the world of networking estimated that there would be approximately 50 billion devices connected
on the internet by the end of 2021. 

I learn only only one of the Internet Protocl addressing scheme known as IPv4 which uses a numbering system of 2^32 IP addresses (4.29 billion)

Ipv6 is a new iteration of the INternet Protocol addressing scheme to help tackle this issue although it seemingly more daunting it boasts a few benefits
  Supports up to 2^128 of IP addresses (340 trillion-plus), resolving the issues faced with IPv4
  More efficient due to new methodologies
Mac Addresses
Devices on a newtork will all have a physical network interface which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at called a 
MAC (Media Access Control) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon.
The first six numbers are the network interface while the last six is a unique number.
However an interesting thing with MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a proccess known asd spoofing. Spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify as another using its MAC address. When this occurs it can often vreak poorly implemented security designs that assumes
that devices talking on a network are trustworthy. For an example take the following scenario: a firewall is configured to allow any communication going to and from the MAC address of the adminstrator. if a device were to pretend or "spoof" this MAC address,
the firewall would now think that it is receiving communication from the adminstrator when it isn't.
Places such as cafes coffee shops and hotels alike often use MAC address control when using their "Guest" or "Public" Wi-Fi.
The configuration could offer better services, i.e. a faster connection for a price if you are willing to pay the fee per device.

